# Docker with microservices

I am developing service where server side is divided to three subsystem:
 - *Login server* for user administration, user accounts and user logins
 - *Cloud server* for processing all the database manipulation and querying stuff with REST API
 - *OCR server* for server-side text recognition, using Tesseract open source library.

All three servers are developed with Node.js and Express.

Both Login server and Cloud server have database on PostgreSQL server.

The system is designed to be scaled with multiple Cloud servers and OCR servers - nginx will be used to load balancing. And I need, of course, different environments for develop and production.

## Without Docker

Before I participated in this excellent course, I have lots of packages installed in my computer. Because of Cloud Server needs tokens created by Login Server I need every time both on them running - so I started both of them in my command line.

I tested production environment in CentOS virtual server installing all the packages to server and then installing all the three my own microservers. Thinking about doing that for more complicated production environment with multiple servers is not so fun.

## With Docker

Now I have dockerized all the stuff. Both Login server and Cloud server have their own PostgreSQL container. I have one docker-compose file starting up the whole choir. Additionally, I have another docker-compose file starting up testing environment where databases are stored in memory only and additionally I have Postman test collection to populate the database with some test data.

So, when I have edited my source code, I just build and run my development-side container collection with docker-compose. It is no need to remember building and running commandments in every subsystem. On the other hand, it may be a bit slower to see modifications in action versus using node watch in live, undockerized system.

In production, there are docker-composer files to attach microservices together and nginx settings to balance the load and distribute API request to microservices. Setting up and maintaining services is much easier thanks to docker and containers - it is no any need to install and update lots of packages.
